In this video, we're gonna
finish up our website header.
So what's left to do here is the "As seen on" part,
so this part here, and in fact,
we're going to use use two grids for that.
The first one is this one here,
so what you see here is in fact a small grid,
but let's start with the one
to lay out these four items here.
And again, I'm going to use the CSS Grid here
instead of Flexbox, because I find it so easy
to use the column-gap instead of having to
mess with the right margins or something like that.
Okay, so here on the "as seen on" logos,
we display this as a grid with four equally sized columns.
So template columns, repeat 4,
and then 1 fractional unit for each of them.
And then we want a gap between them of 3 rem.
So let's check that out.
And all right, so that looks much better already.
Now let's just center each of them here
inside of their grid cell, and so we're gonna use
justify-items, set to center, of course.
And now one other thing that I want to do with these images
is to make them slightly darker.
Okay, so here you have them in this color,
and so it looks as if they were a bit gray,
such as the text here, instead of being this white,
which really catches your attention,
and we don't want that.
And so we can use a filter, and the one I'm looking for
is brightness, and I'm gonna set it to 70%.
So 100% is the default, and if we set it to
anything less than 70%, the image gets darker,
and if we set it to something above 100%,
the image gets lighter, of course.
Okay, and so, yeah, so that's the change
that you just saw here.
So that's this part, and now let's talk about
the "seen on" part, and as I mentioned,
we're going to use a grid here as well.
But probably now you're wondering,
well, we don't even have any grid items.
How are we going to use a grid here for that?
So let's take a look at our HTML,
and in fact, this element here,
it does only have this text here.
So it doesn't even have any child element
which could be a grid item, right?
But in fact, that's not correct,
because even text can be treated as a grid item.
And so, if I set this element here to a grid container,
then the "as seen on" text here
will be one of the grid items.
So again, even text can be a grid item.
And what can also be grid items are pseudo-elements,
and so the trick here is to use one ::before pseudo-element
and one ::after pseudo-element to create
the two lines that we see here.
So these two lines, and so basically,
this here will be one of the grid items,
and the other grid item is this line here,
which is a ::before pseudo-element,
and this line here is an ::after pseudo-element.
And so our three grid items will be these three.
Okay, so that's a completely different application
of CSS Grid, and so I wanted to show you that as well,
and that's why I included
this small part here in this project.
Okay, so we set this here to display: grid,
and before doing any grid definitions,
let's quickly style the text here,
so font-size: 1.6rem, and the color
is the darker light gray, so color-grey-light,
and the darker version to the number 1.
All right, now let's take care of
the ::before and ::after pseudo-elements.
So ::before, and ::after.
And remember that these two here
together with the text will be the three grid items.
And as always, we have to define the content property,
even if we set it to empty, but without it,
this is not going to work.
Then we set its height to 1 pixel,
we also set it to display as a block,
and then we give it a background-color.
And instead of just copying this color from here,
we can use the currentColor variable, right?
Remember this one?
So what this does is that it takes the current text color,
so the one defined in the color property,
and simply uses that one.
And so instead of having to duplicate color-grey-light-2
here again, I can use the currentColor keyword,
and that's then going to use this color.
And if I change this one,
then of course this one changes automatically,
and so it's a great addition to CSS,
this keyword, this variable.
So let's take a look at what happens on the page,
and keep in mind that we didn't specify any width here,
and so that's probably going to have some effect on that.
And all right, it now stretches
across the entire container here.
And so let's actually take a look at that here,
so yeah, so this is our grid, and you see,
down here, that it basically has just one row,
but in fact, it has more than that, okay,
because it also contains these 1 pixel height lines, right?
So we can see here that it actually goes from one to four.
So by default, CSS Grid always places its items in rows,
right, but instead, we of course, we want columns.
So we want three columns, one for the line,
then after that, we want the text here,
the "as seen on" text, and then we want the other line.
And so let's define our columns.
So grid-template-columns, and the first one is 1fr,
so taking the remaining space,
then the one in the middle is max-content, okay,
and let me actually try min-content here
to show you what happens,
and then the last one is 1fr as well.
So we want the left and the right side to be the same,
occupying all the remaining space,
and then the text in the middle.
So let's take a look at that, and that's what I meant,
with the min- and max-content,
so right now this is breaking here into a new line,
and that's exactly what min-content means.
And so what I want here is max-content,
and so that's what it looks like.
Now, there's two more things that we need to add here,
which is the space between these columns, so the gap,
and then also vertically align these three items.
So, grid-column-gap, let's say 15 pixels,
and then just vertically align these elements.
And that should be it, and yeah, that's it.
So that's just the same as our initial version, right?
Now, of course, the spacing here is different,
and that's because we have these dev tools here.
And so let's actually see the effect
of different viewports on the layout here.
Okay, so this is what happens
when we change the viewport height.
So basically, where the space decreases
is exactly in the rows where we defined
1fr as the size of the row track.
So remember, it's this one here, and this one.
Let's actually turn that on.
So the header, and so now
you will start seeing how these rows increase.
Right, so this one and this one.
And that's exactly what I meant at the beginning
when I said that we were going to have
very dynamic spacing here
in a vertical direction in this component.
So what CSS Grid allowed us here to do
is to add this dynamic spacing here,
which changes very easily with the viewport height.
And all that because of the power
of the fractional unit, right?
So that's what allows us to have this behavior
where, when we change this viewport height,
so the height of the container,
then this part here stays at the bottom as we want,
this stays at the top, and all that changes
is the size of these rows.
Basically, this part here stays at the middle.
Okay, and so once again, we used some advanced tools
and concepts here in CSS Grid
to achieve exactly what we want.
And so with that, you have now the tools
to create something similar for your own pages.
So of course, I don't want you to do the exact same thing,
and that's what I always say, because really,
I teach you this so that you can have the tools,
but not that you can copy exactly what I do here.
So always be creative and use these tools
for your own layouts and designs.
All right, and with that, all there's left to do now
is to actually create this missing part here,
so this missing piece, which is the top three realtors.
And then, of course,
we're going to make all of this responsive,
but for now, as for the layout,
all that's missing is this part here.